---
layout: '@/layouts/markdown.astro'
title: Jobs
description: Shorebird openings
---

# Open Positions

- [Developer Relations / Marketing Lead](#developer-relations--marketing-lead)
- [Generalist Software Engineer](#generalist-software-engineer)

---

# About Shorebird

Shorebird is a small, venture-funded startup (est Jan 2023) making Flutter the
default way to write apps. We have a successful Code Push product for Flutter
that lets businesses update their apps instantly on users phones. We've just
(Aug 2025) released a continuous integration product. We're building out a suite
of offerings, and aspire to provide complete solutions to developers to support
the world's transition to multi-platform development as the default.

## Problem: App Development is Broken

App development is broken. The default answer to "write an app" is write it once
for iOS, once for Android, and once for the web (possibly more places).
Businesses write the same app at least twice at 2x the necessary costs, with
redundant code-bases, teams, bug lists.

This is bonkers. Not only is bad for businesses (lots of waste) and developers
(headaches in re-implementation and coordination), but also users (why can't my
friend install your app because their phone has a different brand or why does it
run so much better/worse than my copy of the app?). As a society, we are wasting
countless years of human life in this model, for bad reasons.

For a decade, I (and many others) tried to make the Web (PWAs, etc) solve "write
once; run anywhere" and failed. Hence we built Flutter to let Google and
everyone write high-quality app experiences and have them go everywhere.

Flutter is now the most popular solution for writing multi-platform apps. Over a
million developers use Flutter every month, and growing. Flutter has proven that
high-quality multi-platform is possible.

In 2024, almost
[30% of iOS free apps submitted](https://medium.com/flutter/dart-flutter-momentum-at-google-i-o-2025-4863aa4f84a4)
used Flutter. However, still many apps don't use Flutter. And some that do,
sometimes struggle. Adopting Flutter can be challenging since the default
offerings from Google are sometimes an ill fit or incomplete for those operating
outside Google.

The Flutter project itself is also sometimes a funny fit inside Google (the home
of Android, Ads and Chrome) and long term would benefit from an economic entity
wholly aligned with Flutter's goals (not just trying to use it to sell Ads or
Cloud).

All these problems are why, after taking Flutter as far as I could within
Google, I left to build a company around Flutter: Shorebird.

## Solution: The Flutter Company

Shorebird is filling in the gaps businesses need to be successful with Flutter
development. Just like how businesses "buy" Linux with Redhat, most businesses
will chose to buy Flutter solutions from Shorebird rather than cobbling together
Flutter solutions themselves. That means we'll offer a suite of products to
ensure you have a GREAT experience delivering apps to your users. The first
problem we've solved is code push.

Aspiring to be "the Flutter company" means building an economic entity whose
success is tied to Flutter, to finally help the world stop writing everything
twice.

Google has been great to Flutter, but Flutter within Google is bound by Google's
own incentives, which don't always align with that of Flutter's millions of
customers outside of Google. We're trying to build a company whose success is
aligned with the success of the businesses and developers using Flutter. A
company trusted to provide high quality services around Flutter, and eventually
fund the development of Flutter itself, if necessary.

If we're successful, Shorebird will eventually be synonymous with Flutter. We
hope to support every one of the millions of Flutter developers and the
businesses behind them.

## Where we're at

Shorebird incorporated January 2023. We've shipped our first product (code push)
and now support around 3000 monthly active users, with about 600 paying
customers and strong monthly growth. We raised several million dollars from a
top-5 VC and great investors who care about our mission. We're not profitable
yet, but expect to be within the next year and have plenty of runway to get
there.

We're only 4 people right now. All of us have engineering backgrounds. As our
customers have grown, so has our engineering load and we're seeking to hire
another full-stack engineer to help us scale to even larger customers. We're
also seeking to hire a marketing lead

In comparison to two years ago, we've dramatically de-risked the product and
market -- we have a working thing, that people want to buy. But there is still
much to do, so many choices to make, and so much to grow. That's where you come
in.

## Why work at a startup?

Having worked at both large and small companies, I can tell you, startups feel
very different from big companies and big teams.

Working at a startup means:

- Shipping. We ship 5 times a day, not 5 times a year.
- (Growth)[https://www.paulgraham.com/growth.html]. We are trying to grow
  quickly (revenues, customers, products, people, etc). Growth means
  opportunity, variety and challenge.
- Ambition. Hard work is needed and rewarded. Your colleagues are highly
  engaged, want to be here, want to work hard, and want to learn with and from
  you.
- Big upside. We pay well relative to other startups, but less (cash) than Big
  Tech. Instead we offer lots of equity. Equity means you own a percentage of
  Shorebird, and have a significant financial stake in the company's success.
- Ownership. The team is very small. For anything to be done, that means one of
  us is doing it. If you're going to do, you get to decide. Want to be our CDN
  expert or marketing expert or Dart compiler ninja? More than you could ever
  want to own, you will.
- No layers. Direct access to customers. Direct access to management (the CEO is
  the only manager). Nothing between you and direct action.
- Few distractions. Engineers don't have meetings. There are no perf reviews. We
  show up and do.

## What we do every day

Recently we've focused on growing monthly active users. During our latest
in-person summit in Chicago, we focused on hammering out plans for our second
product, continuous integration, and now that we're back in our respective homes
we're just burning through the issue list and supporting early users.

We see about 40 new accounts sign up per day, about 3 of those become "active"
(create a release/patch every month) and 1 of those buys a plan. We also get a
few of inbound SMB/enterprise sales calls per week through which Eric and Tom
are learning enterprise sales.

The first hour or so every morning is spent working through the support queue
which often results in small changes to the website, docs or code to avoid
future customers hitting the same issues. The rest of the day is spent building.
We have no meetings, no calendars, no perf reviews.

Most of the time we hang out on Discord video calls, but sometimes someone drops
off to jam out to their music, get coffee or lunch, etc. We use the same Discord
for private company chats and calls, private large-customer support channels,
and our public community, which makes it very easy to talk to customers anytime
we want to.

Engineers work across the whole stack. Our websites are in React (Astro), our
backend and command-line tool are in Dart, our Database is postgres. We use
Google Cloud, Redis and Cloudflare. We have our own fork of the Dart runtime and
compiler (C++) and Flutter engine (C++) as well as an updater library (Rust) and
a small Flutter package. Some of us prefer certain layers to others, but ideally
you should want to work on most of the above and more as you help us add more
products!

3-4 times a year we all get together in person for a week. We occasionally
attend meetups or fly to visit customers. Engineers aren't expected to attend
any meetings, Eric or Tom have several customer meetings a week (and sometimes
per day).

## Learn more

We're a default-public organization, we operate on a
[public discord](https://discord.gg/shorebird), our
[source](https://github.com/shorebirdtech/) and
[planning](https://github.com/orgs/shorebirdtech/projects) are public. We're an
all remote, distributed team.

More information about the company we're trying to build can be found in our
[public handbook](https://github.com/shorebirdtech/handbook)

## Location

We're fully remote. Current team members are located near Palo Alto, Chicago,
and Brooklyn (GMT-8 through GMT-5).

Our hiring is currently focused in the North America, but we hope to expand
globally over time. We are willing to consider candidates in GMT-10 through
GMT-3. We communicate exclusively through Discord (both in public and private),
including often leaving video calls open in the background while we work
independently.

We get together 3-4x per year as a company, all flying to some US city for a
week.

## Reach out

If you're interested in joining us, please email eric@shorebird.dev. You can
also (and are encouraged to) hop on our [Discord](https://discord.gg/shorebird)
and chat with us there. We do pretty much everything in the public so you can
very much see what we're like without even needing to apply.

## Developer Relations / Marketing Lead

Location: Remote (North America)

Type: Full-time or contract

Equity: Yes — Early-stage ownership opportunity

### The problem

Shorebird is building “the Flutter company”. Our founder started/led Flutter,
and now we’re building a company to drive Flutter forward, even if Google
can’t/won’t. We’re starting by filling in the gaps in the Flutter ecosystem,
starting with Code Push (over the air updates). Our first product has been a
success, but we estimate only maybe 10% of the 1M+ monthly active Flutter
developers know what we do.

Your job is to help us reach those .9M developers. We’re so far 3 engineers and
an operations lead. None of us love marketing like you do. You will help us
craft our story and tell it widely. You love talking to developers, you love
writing content, giving talks etc and you’ll have full support to do what it
takes to raise awareness. At a small company this is a generalist role. You
don’t have to be amazing at all parts of developer relations or marketing, but
no one else is here to do things if one of us doesn’t.

### What You’ll Do

- Grow developer awareness. Craft and execute strategies to get Shorebird in
  front of more Flutter developers.

- Grow our social presence. Own and operate Shorebird’s social presence across
  all channels.

- Write and speak. Publish technical blog posts, create videos or live demos,
  speak at conferences, and engage with the community on X, GitHub, Reddit, and
  beyond.

- Advocate for Flutter and Shorebird. Shorebird only succeeds if Flutter does.
  You get to tell both stories to customers at all phases of their adoption
  journey.

- Build relationships. Identify and support influential Flutter developers and
  early adopters.

- Close the loop. Bring insights from the community back to the team to inform
  product direction.

- Own marketing. From website content to email campaigns to positioning, you’ll
  shape how we tell the Shorebird story.

### What We’re Looking For

- Mission alignment. You care about helping the world stop writing everything
  twice. Flutter is our tool for that and Shorebird aims to take Flutter beyond
  where Google can.

- Strong desire to work at a startup. We’re a tiny team. All remote. You’ll be
  the first person fulltime driving awareness and will get to define our
  strategy and approach.

- Scrappy and self-driven. You are the marketing department. You are our DevRel
  org. You’ll have lots of help, but you’ll have to want to make your own
  decisions and own them. You’ll also (likely) be fully remote which means you
  need to be great at self motivation and self-direction.

- Experience working in Developer Relations, Product Marketing, or Technical
  Advocacy — or strong proof you can do the job.

- Strong writing and communication skills. You enjoy breaking down complex
  topics for different audiences.

- Comfort with code. You don’t need to be an expert Flutter dev, but you can
  read docs, run sample apps, and maybe write a working blog demo.

- Bonus: experience in startups, open-source communities, or the Flutter
  ecosystem.

### Why Join

- Work directly with a small, senior team solving hard, high-impact problems.

- Influence product, messaging, and strategy from the ground up.

- Competitive compensation \+ early equity.

- Shape the future of how mobile apps are built and shipped.

## Generalist Software Engineer

Location: Remote or Chicago / Brooklyn / Palo Alto

We’re looking for a generalist software engineer to join us early. You’ll work
across the stack: cloud infrastructure, backend APIs, web UI, and maybe even
native C++ or Flutter internals. We write almost everything in Dart, just like
Flutter itself.

### What You’ll Do

- Build backend infrastructure (mostly in Dart) that powers developer tools used
  in production apps

- Contribute to frontend web tooling and developer UX

- Depending on interests, may dip into native code (like our C++ fork of Dart’s
  compiler) when needed

- Work independently and own projects end-to-end

- Help shape our culture, processes, and product direction

### About You

- You're a strong generalist who can jump into unfamiliar systems and figure
  things out

- You're a self-starter — you work well with little oversight and thrive in
  ambiguous environments

- You’re excited about Flutter and want to help it succeed

- You care about product quality and developer experience

- You have solid experience with at least one part of the stack — backend,
  cloud infrastructure, frontend, or native — and are eager to learn the rest

- You’re comfortable working remotely and asynchronously

### Nice to Have

- Experience with Dart, Flutter, or other cross-platform frameworks

- Experience with build systems, deployment pipelines, or developer tools

- Startup experience or contributions to open source projects

### Location

- Remote (North America)

- OR in-person Chicago, Brooklyn, or Palo Alto — junior candidates must be in
  one of these locations for in-person mentorship. (We're a remote-first
  culture, but if you're early in your career we want to set you up to succeed
  by partnering with you daily.)
